In this lesson, we continue to work with interface sounds. Now let's learn how to play sounds in C ++
Let's add two new sounds to the interface: the
first of them will be played when one of the main widgets is opened, the
second sound will be played when the user clicks on the start game button.
Let's create two new sound cues.
This can be done by right-clicking on the sound wave and selecting create cue from the menu.
We name the first sound cue - game start.
Create a second sound cue. We call it - widget open.
Move them to the UI folder
and we can go to the code.
Let's start with the widget menu, add a forward declaration for the sound cue, it is called in the code - USoundCue
and create a property that will store the pointer to the sound cue we need.
Change the category to Sound in the property,
name the pointer StartGasmeSound.
Go to the .cpp file. We connect the header file "Sound / SoundCue.h"
When you press the button to start the game, the StartGame function is called, so it is logical to add
sound playback to this function. The static function for playing sound is in the UGamePlayStatics class
and is called PlaySound2D. It has several parameters: a pointer to the world, a pointer to
the SoundBase class - this is the base class for all sounds. Both sound wave and sound cue are inherited from it.
There are also various additional parameters, for example, we can override the
volume of a given sound, override pitch, and others. We pass in the function a pointer to the world
and also our StartGameSound pointer. Elementary code for playing sound.
Next, we go to the BaseWidget class and in fact do the same here: add a forward declaration, add a
property.
Change the name of the property to OpenSound.
Go to the .cpp file. We include header files. We need SoundCue.h
and GameplayStatics.h
Copy the sound playback code.
Add to the Show function.
And change the second parameter to OpenSound.
We compile the project.
Let's start with the main menu widget. We will not play the OpenSound sound in this widget - we will leave the property empty.
And in StartGame, set the appropriate SoundCue. In this list, SoundWave is unavailable for us, because we
specified the USoundCue property class. Go to the game pause widget. Install OpenSound.
We do the same in the game over widget.
Also, we will not install OpenSound in the player HUD widget, so as not to overdo it with sounds.
We start the game and check the sound work.
The game start sound was played.
The spawn sound plays during game pause. And we are waiting for the appearance of the game over widget.
Everything works.